feat(INTLY-4050): solution pattern cohesion (#114)
integr8ly/tutorial-web-app-walkthroughs: walkthroughs/1B-protecting-applications-using-rh-sso/walkthrough.adoc

NOTE: You must complete the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern prior to starting this one.

Each Red Hat Managed Integration cluster includes two SSO instances:

* *{rhmi-sso-name}* provides authenication to the Managed Integration cluster.

* *{customer-sso-name}* can be used by developers to secure applications they deploy on the cluster, or even on other infrastructure.

This Solution Pattern shows you how to use the *{customer-sso-name}* to enable
authentication and authorisation for the *Order Entry System* and the *Order
Management System* from the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a
RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern.

image::images/arch.png[integration, role="integr8ly-img-responsive"]

[type=walkthroughResource,serviceName=openshift]
.Red Hat OpenShift
****
* link:{openshift-host}/console[Console, window="_blank"]
* link:https://help.openshift.com/[OpenShift Online Help Center, window="_blank"]
* link:https://blog.openshift.com/[OpenShift Blog, window="_blank"]
****

[type=walkthroughResource,serviceName=3scale]

> .End user SSO instance

Author: Cannot use a variable for this name for some reason.

Author: CC @pwright

Reviewer: @evanshortiss there's a known issue for that, will try to find the jira

:sso-realm-url: {user-sso-url}/auth/admin/{user-username}/console/index.html
:sso-adapter-docs-url: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_single_sign-on/7.3/html/securing_applications_and_services_guide/index

:rhmi-sso-name: Managed Integration SSO instance
:customer-sso-name: End user SSO instance

= Protecting Applications using Red Hat Single Sign-On (SSO)

> This Solution Pattern demonstrates how SSO can be used to protect web applications by providing single sign-on capabilities based on popular standards such as SAML 2.0, OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Solution Pattern demonstrates how to use the end user SSO instance to protect web applications using standards such as SAML 2.0, OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0.
```

> NOTE: You must complete the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern prior to starting this one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: You must complete the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern before starting this Solution Pattern.
```

* *{rhmi-sso-name}* provides authenication to the Managed Integration cluster.

* *{customer-sso-name}* can be used by developers to secure applications they deploy on the cluster, or even on other infrastructure.

This Solution Pattern shows you how to use the *{customer-sso-name}* to enable
authentication and authorisation for the *Order Entry System* and the *Order
Management System* from the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a
RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern.

image::images/arch.png[integration, role="integr8ly-img-responsive"]

[type=walkthroughResource,serviceName=openshift]
.Red Hat OpenShift
****
* link:{openshift-host}/console[Console, window="_blank"]
* link:https://help.openshift.com/[OpenShift Online Help Center, window="_blank"]
* link:https://blog.openshift.com/[OpenShift Blog, window="_blank"]
****

[type=walkthroughResource,serviceName=3scale]
.End user SSO instance
****
* link:{sso-realm-url}[SSO Realm Console, window="_blank"]
* link:https://access.redhat.com/products/red-hat-single-sign-on/[Red Hat Single Sign-On Overview, window="_blank"]
****

:sectnums:

[time=15]

> == Creating a Client and User in SSO

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Creating a client and user in SSO
```

SSO uses *Realms* to manage *Clients*, *Roles*, *Users* and *Groups*. A
user belongs to and logs into a realm. Realms are isolated from one another and
can only manage and authenticate the users that they control.

A realm has already been created for this Solution Pattern and user.

> === Create a Client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Creating a client
```

> Securing an application using SSO requires a *Client* to be created in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Securing an application requires you to create a client in the {customer-sso-name}:
```

> a *Realm*. The *Client* represents the application being secured and contains

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> important details regarding the security applied to the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

. Navigate to the link:{sso-realm-url}[SSO Realm, window="_blank"].
. Enter the username `{user-username}` and password `password` if prompted.

> . Details for realm named {user-username} are displayed upon login success.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Details for realm named {user-username} are displayed upon login success.
```

. Select *Clients* from the menu on the left.
. Click the *Create* button at the top of the list of clients to display the *Add Client* screen:
.. Enter `order-entry-system` in the *Client ID* field.
.. Verify *Client Protocol* is set to `openid-connect`.

> .. Paste the URL of the *Order Entry System UI* from the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern in the *Root URL* field. This should look similar to `https://order-entry-ui-{user-username}-<NAMESPACE>.{openshift-app-host}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Paste the URL of the *Order Entry System UI* from the *Integrating message-oriented middleware with a RESTful API using AMQ Online* Solution Pattern in the *Root URL* field. 
This should look similar to `https://order-entry-ui-{user-username}-<NAMESPACE>.{openshift-app-host}`
```

.. Click *Save*.
. The *Settings* screen for the `order-entry-system` client should be displayed.

> . Verify that the *Access Type* field is set to `public`. This means the client is a frontend application that needs to login via a web browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Make sure that the *Access Type* field is set to `public`. This means the client is a frontend application that needs to login via a web browser.
```

[type=verification]
Select the *Clients* item in the side menu. The `order-entry-system` client should be listed and *Enabled* should be `True`.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above and that the *Enabled* toggle in the *Client* is set to *ON*. If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.

> === Create a User

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Creating a User
```

. Click *Add user*.
.. Enter the username `customer`.
.. Leave other fields with their default values and click *Save*.
. The `customer` user details should now be displayed with tabs along the top of the UI.
. Select the *Credentials* tab.
.. Enter the password `customer-password` in the *New Password* field.
.. Enter the same password in the *Password Confirmation* field.
.. Set the *Temporary* toggle to the *OFF* position.
+
NOTE: If we left *Temporary* in the *ON* position the user would be forced to create a new password when they perform a login.
.. Click the *Reset Password* button.
.. When prompted click the *Change password* button in the modal.

[type=verification]
Select the *Users* item in the side menu. Click the *View all users* button. The `customer` user should be listed.

[type=verificationFail]
Verify that you followed each step in the procedure above. If you are still having issues, contact your administrator.

[time=15]
== Enabling SSO in the Order Entry System

=== Obtaining the SSO Configuration

To secure an application with SSO a *Client Adapter* is required.
Various platforms are supported with *Client Adapters*:

> . Spring Boot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Spring Boot
```

> . Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Node.js
```

> . JBoss EAP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* JBoss EAP
```

> . Fuse

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fuse
```

> . JavaScript (client-side)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* JavaScript (client-side)
```

> . Servlet Filter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Servlet Filter
```

{blank}

> The *Order Entry System* is run from a Node.js server, so the Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The *Order Entry System* is a Node.js server, so the Node.js
```

`keycloak-connect` adapter is included in the code. The following steps will
demonstrate how to include a configuration and enable the adapter.
+

> NOTE: Enabling the adapter can vary depending on how an application has been coded. The Order Entry System has been developed to enable SSO protection if a configuration is found in the environment on startup.

Reviewer 3: This renders incorrectly (note the + before the note):

![note](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1851198/70332109-29b6ad00-1841-11ea-8035-f982c66cf1c9.png)

> NOTE: Enabling the adapter can vary depending on how an application has been coded. The Order Entry System has been developed to enable SSO protection using the `keycloak-connect` Node.js module if a configuration is found in the environment on startup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

. Navigate to the link:{sso-realm-url}[SSO Realm, window="_blank"].
. Enter the username `{user-username}` and password `password` if prompted. 
. Select *Clients* from the side menu.
. Click the `order-entry-system` client that was created earlier.
. Choose the *Installation* tab.
. Select *Keycloak OIDC JSON* for *Format Option*.
. Click the *Download* button to download this as a _keycloak.json_ file.

=== Creating a SSO Config Map Entry

. Login to the link:{openshift-host}/console/[OpenShift Console, window="_blank"].

> . Select the *walkthroughs-1A-integrate-event-and-api-driven-apps* project.

Reviewer 3: nitpick, but the actual name is `evals12 - tutorial-web-app-walkthroughs-walkthroughs-1A-integrate-event-and-api-driven-apps`, so maybe we should update this to `<user name> - <location>-walkthroughs-1A-integrate-event-and-api-driven-apps` or maybe just say something like `Selector the project that contains walkthroughs-1A-integrate-event-and-api-driven-apps in the name`?

Author: > Selector the project that contains walkthroughs-1A-integrate-event-and-api-driven-apps in the name

Yep, that was my intention. Will fix to make that clear per your suggestion 👍

. Select *Resources > Config Maps*.
. Click the *Create Config Map*  button.
.. Enter `order-entry-keycloak-config` in the *Name* field.
.. Enter `KEYCLOAK_CONFIG` in the *Key* field.
.. Click the *Browse* button and select the _keycloak.json_ file that was downloaded in the previous section.
. Click the *Create* button.

=== Applying the SSO Config Map

> . Login to the link:{openshift-host}/console/[OpenShift Console, window="_blank"].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in to the link:{openshift-host}/console/[OpenShift Console, window="_blank"].
```

. Navigate to the *walkthroughs-1A-integrate-event-and-api-driven-apps* project.
. Select *Applications > Deployments*.
. Select the *rhmi-lab-nodejs-order-frontend* item from the *Deployments* list.
. Select the *Environment* tab.
.. Click the *Add Value from Config Map or Secret*
.. Enter `KEYCLOAK_CONFIG` in the *Name* column.
.. Choose `order-entry-keycloak-config` from the *Select a resource* dropdown.
.. Choose the `KEYCLOAK_CONFIG` in the *Select key* dropdown. 
. Scroll down and click *Save*.
. Select *Overview* on the left and find the *rhmi-lab-nodejs-order-frontend* in the list.
. If a deployment is still in progress, wait for it to finish.
. Open the URL listed beside the *rhmi-lab-nodejs-order-frontend* in either a private browser session, or a different browser to view the *Order Entry System* UI.
+

> NOTE: We suggest using a private session or different browser to ensure any old sessions that might exist are not being used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: Use a private session or different browser to avoid conflict with old sessions.
```
